OSSM-8185 Document installing OSSM 3 on a cluster with OSSM 2 (without interfering with the OSSM 2) (#84004)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-running-v2-v3-multitenant-deployment-model.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service-mesh-docs-main/install/ossm-v2-v3-side-by-side-assembly.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-running-v2-v3-multitenant-deployment-model_{context}"]

> = Running {SMProductName} 2.6 and {SMProductName} 3 using multi-tenant deployment model

Reviewer: Do you think this would be allowed to make it a teeny bit shorter?
```suggestion
= Running {SMProductName} 2.6 and {SMProduct} 3 using multi-tenant deployment model
```

//TP1 content influx. Title, etc may change.
//No IA as of 10/23/2024 so this content is likely to move.

If you are moving from {SMProductName} 2.6 from the default multi-tenant deployment model, you can run {SMProduct} 2.6 side-by-side with {SMProduct} 3.0, in one cluster, without them interfering with each other.

In {SMProduct} 2.6, you can check your deployment model from the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` under `spec.mode`:

.Example `ServiceMeshControlPlane` yaml
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: maistra.io/v2
kind: ServiceMeshControlPlane
metadata:
  name: basic
spec:
  mode: MultiTenant
----

//NOTES: 10/23/2024

//DO NOT USE VERSION NUMBER ATTRIBUTE. It is set for 3.0, will likely change, and it is unclear if later versions would impact this procedure for moving from 2.6.
//Only moving from 2.6 has been tested and verified by QE.
//Mulitenant has no changes to OSSM 2.6, separate module.

.Prerequisites

* You are running {ocp-product-title} 4.14 or later.

> * You are running {SMProductName} 2.6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You are running {SMProduct} 2.6.
```

If you are not running {SMProduct} 2.6, you must upgrade to 2.6 before following this procedure. To upgrade to {SMProduct} version to 2.6, see: link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/service_mesh/v2x/upgrading-ossm.html[Upgrading Service Mesh 2.x]

> //likely will need to link: to OSSM 2.x upgrade content

Reviewer: Consider making this a NOTE or IMPORTANT block and putting it up in the intro above the prereqs. If you don't want to move it, add a `+` so that it attaches to the Service Mesh 2.6 bullet :nerd_face:

.Procedure

. Install the {SMProduct} 3 Operator.

. Create an `IstioCNI` resource in the `istio-cni` namespace.

> . Create an `Istio` resource in a different `namespace` than the `namespace` used in the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource in {SMProduct} 2.6. In this example, `istio-system3` is being used:

Reviewer: You can just use namespace as a normal noun (no ticks), otherwise it should be followed by "field" or something
```suggestion
. Create an `Istio` resource in a different namespace than the namespace used in the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource in {SMProduct} 2.6. This example uses the `istio-system3` namespace:
```

Reviewer 2: I think Jeana's suggestion in the second sentence is a good one.

Author: I must've missed this while dealing with the merge conflict. I'll make a Jira to correct it. Thanks!

+
.Example `Istio` resource with `istio-system3`
[source, yaml]
----
kind: Istio
piVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: ossm3 # <1>
spec:
  namespace: istio-system3 # <2>
  values:
    meshConfig:
      discoverySelectors: # <3>
        - matchExpressions:
          - key: maistra.io/member-of
            operator: DoesNotExist
  updateStrategy:
    type: InPlace
  version: v1.23.0
----
<1> Do not use `default` as the name.

> <2> Must be different from the `namespace` used in the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource in {SMProduct} 2.6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Must be different from the namespace used in the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource in {SMProduct} 2.6.
```

> <3> To ignore {SMProduct} 2.6 namespaces, use `discoverySelectors`. All other namespaces will be part of the {SMProduct} 3.0 mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> To ignore {SMProduct} 2.6 namespaces, configure the `discoverySelectors` section as shown. All other namespaces will be part of the {SMProduct} 3.0 mesh.
```

> <3> Use `discoverySelectors` to ignore {SMProduct} 2.6 namespaces. All other namespaces will be part of the {SmProduct} 3.0 mesh.

Reviewer 3: Same comment as above.

> . Deploy your workloads and label the namespaces with `istio.io/rev=ossm3` label:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Deploy your workloads and label the namespaces with `istio.io/rev=ossm3` label by running the following command:
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service-mesh-docs-main/install/ossm-v2-v3-side-by-side-assembly.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-running-v2-v3-multitenant-deployment-model_{context}"]
= Running {SMProductName} 2 and 3 using multi-tenant deployment model
//TP1 content influx. Title, etc may change.
//No IA as of 10/23/2024 so this content is likely to move.

> If you are moving from {SMProductName} 2.6 in a multi-tenant deployment model, you can run {SMProduct} 2.6 side-by-side with {SMProduct} 3.0, in one cluster, without them interfering with each other.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you are moving from {SMProductName} 2.6 in a multi-tenant deployment model (the default model), you can run {SMProduct} 2.6 side-by-side with {SMProduct} 3.0, in one cluster, without them interfering with each other.
```

Reviewer 4: We should call out that this is the default model, because I can see a lot of users thinking... "I'm not doing anything multi-tenant" and not realizing that they are in fact using the multi-tenant model if they have not explicitly configured cluster-wide... they just never thought about it. I would guess this is 80% of users.

//NOTES: 10/23/2024

//DO NOT USE VERSION NUMBER ATTRIBUTE. It is set for 3.0, will likely change, and it is unclear if later versions would impact this procedure for moving from 2.6.
//Only moving from 2.6 has been tested and verified by QE.
//Mulitenant has no changes to OSSM 2.6, separate module.

.Prerequisites

> * You are running {ocp-product-title} 4.15 or later

Reviewer 4: Same question as above... unless there's a specific reason for 4.15, it should say 4.14 to align with OSSM 2.6/3.0.

* You are running {SMProductName} 2.6.

If you are not running {SMProduct} 2.6, you must upgrade to 2.6 before following this procedure. To upgrade from you current {SMProduct} version to 2.6, see: link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/service_mesh/v2x/upgrading-ossm.html[Upgrading Service Mesh 2.x]
//likely will need to link: to OSSM 2.x upgrade content

.Procedure

> . Install {SMProduct} Operator 3.0.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Install the {SMProduct} Operator 3.0.
```

> . Install the {SMProduct} Operator 3.0.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Install the {SMProduct} Operator 3.0 operator.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service-mesh-docs-main/install/ossm-v2-v3-side-by-side-assembly.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-running-v2-v3-multitenant-deployment-model_{context}"]
= Running {SMProductName} 2.6 and 3 using multi-tenant deployment model
//TP1 content influx. Title, etc may change.
//No IA as of 10/23/2024 so this content is likely to move.

If you are moving from {SMProductName} 2.6 from the default multi-tenant deployment model, you can run {SMProduct} 2.6 side-by-side with {SMProduct} 3.0, in one cluster, without them interfering with each other.

> In {SMProductName} 2.6, you can check your deployment model from the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` under `spec.mode.`:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In {SMProductName} 2.6, you can check your deployment model from the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` under `spec.mode`:
```

.Prerequisites

* You are running {ocp-product-title} 4.14 or later.
* You are running {SMProductName} 2.6.

If you are not running {SMProduct} 2.6, you must upgrade to 2.6 before following this procedure. To upgrade from you current {SMProduct} version to 2.6, see: link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/service_mesh/v2x/upgrading-ossm.html[Upgrading Service Mesh 2.x]
//likely will need to link: to OSSM 2.x upgrade content

.Procedure

. Install the {SMProduct} 3 Operator.

. Create an `IstioCNI` resource in the `istio-cni` namespace.

. Create an `Istio` resource in a different `namespace` than the `namespace` used in the `ServiceMeshControlPlane` resource in {SMProduct} 2.6. In this example, `istio-system3` is being used:
+
.Example `Istio` resource with `istio-system3`
[source, yaml]
----
    kind: Istio
    apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1alpha1
    metadata:
      name: ossm3 # <1>
    spec:
      namespace: istio-system3 # <2>
      values:
        meshConfig:
          discoverySelectors: # <3>
            - matchExpressions:
              - key: maistra.io/member-of
                operator: DoesNotExist
      updateStrategy:
        type: InPlace

>       version: v1.23.0

Author: There is something amiss somewhere. It shows as correct in VSCode, it has been saved and pushed, but for some reason, neither GitHub nor the preview always reflect the change. Like every yaml example has been like this. Argh. It's really annoying! :laughing:
